README.md, before:

[![Go package](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/actions/workflows/go.yml)
![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1233224785450897561)
![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/DefangLabs/defang)

### ![Defang](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DefangLabs/defang-assets/main/Logos/Element_Wordmark_Slogan/JPG/Dark_Colour_Glow.jpg)

## Develop Once, Deploy Anywhere.

Take your app from Docker Compose to a secure and scalable deployment on your favorite cloud in minutes.

## Defang CLI

The Defang Command-Line Interface [(CLI)](https://docs.defang.io/docs/getting-started) is designed for developers who prefer to manage their workflows directly from the terminal. It offers full access to Defang’s capabilities, allowing you to build, test, and deploy applications efficiently to the cloud.

### Deploying with Defang

If you already have a Docker Compose file, create a new stack and then deploy it. For example:

```shell
$ defang stack new
? Which cloud provider do you want to deploy to? AWS
? Which AWS region do you want to deploy to? us-west-2
? Which deployment mode do you want to use? AFFORDABLE
? What do you want to call this stack? awsuswest2
 * Created new stack configuration file: `.defang/awsuswest2`. Check this file into version control. You can now deploy this stack using `defang up --stack=awsuswest2`

$ defang up --stack=awsuswest2
```

## Defang MCP Server

[![Install in VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-Install_defang-0098FF?style=flat&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=ffffff)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode:mcp/install?%7B%22name%22%3A%22defang%22%2C%22type%22%3A%22stdio%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22npx%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22-y%22%2C%22defang%22%2C%22mcp%22%2C%22serve%22%2C%22--client%22%2C%22vscode%22%5D%7D)
[![Install in VS Code Insiders](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code_Insiders-Install_defang-24bfa5?style=flat&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=ffffff)](https://insiders.vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode-insiders:mcp/install?%7B%22name%22%3A%22defang%22%2C%22type%22%3A%22stdio%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22npx%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22-y%22%2C%22defang%22%2C%22mcp%22%2C%22serve%22%2C%22--client%22%2C%22vscode-insiders%22%5D%7D)
[![Install MCP Server](https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.svg)](https://cursor.com/en-US/install-mcp?name=defang&config=eyJ0eXBlIjoic3RkaW8iLCJjb21tYW5kIjoibnB4IC15IGRlZmFuZyBtY3Agc2VydmUgLS1jbGllbnQgY3Vyc29yIn0%3D)

The Defang Model Context Protocol [(MCP)](https://docs.defang.io/docs/concepts/mcp) Server is tailored for developers who work primarily within integrated development environments (IDEs). It enables seamless cloud deployment from supported editors such as Cursor, Windsurf, VS Code, VS Code Insiders and Claude delivering a fully integrated experience without leaving your development environment.

## This repo includes:

- Public releases of the Defang CLI; [click here](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/releases/latest/) for the latest version
- Built-in support for MCP Server — the Defang MCP Server makes cloud deployment as easy as a single prompt. [Learn more](https://docs.defang.io/docs/concepts/mcp)
- [Samples](https://github.com/DefangLabs/samples) in Golang, Python, and Node.js that show how to accomplish various tasks and deploy them to the DOP using a Docker Compose file using the Defang CLI.
- Samples that show how to deploy an app using the [Defang Pulumi Provider](https://github.com/DefangLabs/pulumi-defang).

## Getting started

- Read our [Getting Started](https://docs.defang.io/docs/getting-started) page
- Follow the installation instructions from the [Installing](https://docs.defang.io/docs/getting-started/installing) page
- Take a look at our [Samples folder](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/tree/main/samples) for example projects in various programming languages.
- Try the AI integration by running `defang generate`
- Start your new service with `defang compose up`

## Installing

Install the Defang CLI from one of the following sources:

- Using the [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) package manager [DefangLabs/defang tap](https://github.com/DefangLabs/homebrew-defang):

  ```
  brew install DefangLabs/defang/defang
  ```

- Using a shell script:

  ```
  eval "$(curl -fsSL s.defang.io/install)"
  ```

- Using [Go](https://go.dev):

  ```
  go install github.com/DefangLabs/defang/src/cmd/cli@latest
  ```

- Using the [Nix package manager](https://nixos.org):

  - with Nix-Env:
    ```
    nix-env -if https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/archive/main.tar.gz
    ```
  - or with Flakes:
    ```
    nix profile install github:DefangLabs/defang#defang-bin --refresh
    ```

- Using [winget](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/package-manager/winget/):

  ```
  winget install defang
  ```

- Using a PowerShell script:

  ```
  iwr https://s.defang.io/defang_win_amd64.zip -OutFile defang.zip
  Expand-Archive defang.zip . -Force
  ```

- Using the [official image from Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/defangio/defang-cli):

  ```
  docker run -it defangio/defang-cli help
  ```

- Using [NPX](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/commands/npx):

  ```
  npx defang@latest help
  ```

- or download the [latest binary](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/releases/latest/) of the Defang CLI.

## Support

- File any issues [here](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/issues)

## Command completion

The Defang CLI supports command completion for Bash, Zsh, Fish, and Powershell. To get the shell script for command completion, run the following command:

```
defang completion [bash|zsh|fish|powershell]
```

If you're using Bash, you can add the following to your `~/.bashrc` file:

```
source <(defang completion bash)
```

If you're using Zsh, you can add the following to your `~/.zshrc` file:

```
source <(defang completion zsh)
```

or pipe the output to a file called `_defang` in the directory with the completions.

If you're using Fish, you can add the following to your `~/.config/fish/config.fish` file:

```
defang completion fish | source
```

If you're using Powershell, you can add the following to your `$HOME\Documents\PowerShell\Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` file:

```
Invoke-Expression -Command (defang completion powershell | Out-String)
```

## Environment Variables

The Defang CLI recognizes the following environment variables:

- `COMPOSE_DISABLE_ENV_FILE` - Whether to disable loading environment variables from a `.env` file in the current directory; defaults to `false`
- `COMPOSE_FILE` - The Compose file(s) to use; defaults to `compose.yaml`, `compose.yml`, `docker-compose.yaml`, or `docker-compose.yml` in the current directory
- `COMPOSE_PATH_SEPARATOR` - The path separator to use for `COMPOSE_FILE`; defaults to `:` on Unix/MacOS and `;` on Windows
- `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME` - The name of the project to use; overrides the `name` in the Compose file
- `DEFANG_ACCESS_TOKEN` - The access token to use for authentication; if not specified, uses token from `defang login`
- `DEFANG_BUILD_CONTEXT_LIMIT` - The maximum size of the build context when building container images; defaults to `100MiB`
- `DEFANG_CD_BUCKET` - The S3 bucket to use for the BYOC CD pipeline; defaults to `defang-cd-bucket-…`
- `DEFANG_CD_IMAGE` - The image to use for the Continuous Deployment (CD) pipeline; defaults to `public.ecr.aws/defang-io/cd:public-beta`
- `DEFANG_DEBUG` - set this to `1` or `true` to enable debug logging
- `DEFANG_DISABLE_ANALYTICS` - If set to `true`, disables sending analytics to Defang; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_EDITOR` - The editor to launch after new project generation; defaults to `code` (VS Code)
- `DEFANG_FABRIC` - The address of the Defang Fabric to use; defaults to `fabric-prod1.defang.dev`
- `DEFANG_JSON` - If set to `true`, outputs JSON instead of human-readable output; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_HIDE_HINTS` - If set to `true`, hides hints in the CLI output; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_HIDE_UPDATE` - If set to `true`, hides the update notification; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_ISSUER` - The OAuth2 issuer to use for authentication; defaults to `https://auth.defang.io`
- `DEFANG_MODEL_ID` - The model ID of the LLM to use for the generate/debug AI integration (Pro users only)
- `DEFANG_NO_CACHE` - If set to `true`, disables pull-through caching of container images; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_ORG` - The name of the organization to use; defaults to the user's GitHub name
- `DEFANG_PREFIX` - The prefix to use for all BYOC resources; defaults to `Defang`
- `DEFANG_PROVIDER` - The name of the cloud provider to use, `auto` (default), `aws`, `digitalocean`, `gcp`, or `defang`
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_BACKEND` - The Pulumi backend URL or `"pulumi-cloud"`; defaults to a self-hosted backend
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_DEBUG` - If set to `true`, enables debug logging for Pulumi operations; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_DIFF` - If set to `true`, shows the Pulumi diff during deployments; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_DIR` - Run Pulumi from this folder, instead of spawning a cloud task; requires `--debug` (BYOC only)
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_VERSION` - Override the version of the Pulumi image to use (`aws` provider only)
- `DEFANG_SUFFIX` - The suffix to use for all BYOC resources; defaults to the stack name, or `beta` if unset.
- `NO_COLOR` - If set to any value, disables color output; by default, color output is enabled depending on the terminal
- `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` - The Pulumi access token to use for authentication to Pulumi Cloud; see `DEFANG_PULUMI_BACKEND`
- `PULUMI_CONFIG_PASSPHRASE` - Passphrase used to generate a unique key for your stack, and configuration and encrypted state values
- `TZ` - The timezone to use for log timestamps: an IANA TZ name like `UTC` or `Europe/Amsterdam`; defaults to `Local`
- `XDG_STATE_HOME` - The directory to use for storing state; defaults to `~/.local/state`

Environment variables will be loaded from a `.defang` file in the current directory, if it exists. This file follows
the same format as a `.env` file: `KEY=VALUE` pairs on each line, lines starting with `#` are treated as comments and ignored.

## Development

At Defang we use the [Nix package manager](https://nixos.org) for our dev environment, in conjunction with [DirEnv](https://direnv.net).

To get started quickly, install Nix and DirEnv, then create a `.envrc` file to automatically load the Defang developer environment:

```sh
echo use flake >> .envrc
direnv allow
```

Commit message:

Lio/cleanup tenants (#1732)
* chore: debug output to stderr

so it doesn't affect JSON output

* update READMEs

* fix route53 integration test

* cleanup tenants

* rename TenantName to TenantLabel

* Update src/pkg/cli/client/byoc/gcp/byoc.go

Co-authored-by: coderabbitai[bot] <136622811+coderabbitai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix(whoami): show personal workspace if none selected

---------

Co-authored-by: coderabbitai[bot] <136622811+coderabbitai[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

[![Go package](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/actions/workflows/go.yml)
![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1233224785450897561)
![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/DefangLabs/defang)

### ![Defang](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DefangLabs/defang-assets/main/Logos/Element_Wordmark_Slogan/JPG/Dark_Colour_Glow.jpg)

## Develop Once, Deploy Anywhere.

Take your app from Docker Compose to a secure and scalable deployment on your favorite cloud in minutes.

## Defang CLI

The Defang Command-Line Interface [(CLI)](https://docs.defang.io/docs/getting-started) is designed for developers who prefer to manage their workflows directly from the terminal. It offers full access to Defang’s capabilities, allowing you to build, test, and deploy applications efficiently to the cloud.

### Deploying with Defang

If you already have a Docker Compose file, create a new stack and then deploy it. For example:

```shell
$ defang stack new
? Which cloud provider do you want to deploy to? AWS
? Which AWS region do you want to deploy to? us-west-2
? Which deployment mode do you want to use? AFFORDABLE
? What do you want to call this stack? awsuswest2
 * Created new stack configuration file: `.defang/awsuswest2`. Check this file into version control. You can now deploy this stack using `defang up --stack=awsuswest2`

$ defang up --stack=awsuswest2
```

## Defang MCP Server

[![Install in VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-Install_defang-0098FF?style=flat&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=ffffff)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode:mcp/install?%7B%22name%22%3A%22defang%22%2C%22type%22%3A%22stdio%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22npx%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22-y%22%2C%22defang%22%2C%22mcp%22%2C%22serve%22%2C%22--client%22%2C%22vscode%22%5D%7D)
[![Install in VS Code Insiders](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code_Insiders-Install_defang-24bfa5?style=flat&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=ffffff)](https://insiders.vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode-insiders:mcp/install?%7B%22name%22%3A%22defang%22%2C%22type%22%3A%22stdio%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22npx%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22-y%22%2C%22defang%22%2C%22mcp%22%2C%22serve%22%2C%22--client%22%2C%22vscode-insiders%22%5D%7D)
[![Install MCP Server](https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.svg)](https://cursor.com/en-US/install-mcp?name=defang&config=eyJ0eXBlIjoic3RkaW8iLCJjb21tYW5kIjoibnB4IC15IGRlZmFuZyBtY3Agc2VydmUgLS1jbGllbnQgY3Vyc29yIn0%3D)

The Defang Model Context Protocol [(MCP)](https://docs.defang.io/docs/concepts/mcp) Server is tailored for developers who work primarily within integrated development environments (IDEs). It enables seamless cloud deployment from supported editors such as Cursor, Windsurf, VS Code, VS Code Insiders and Claude delivering a fully integrated experience without leaving your development environment.

## This repo includes:

- Public releases of the Defang CLI; [click here](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/releases/latest/) for the latest version
- Built-in support for MCP Server — the Defang MCP Server makes cloud deployment as easy as a single prompt. [Learn more](https://docs.defang.io/docs/concepts/mcp)
- [Samples](https://github.com/DefangLabs/samples) in Golang, Python, and Node.js that show how to accomplish various tasks and deploy them to the DOP using a Docker Compose file using the Defang CLI.
- Samples that show how to deploy an app using the [Defang Pulumi Provider](https://github.com/DefangLabs/pulumi-defang).

## Getting started

- Read our [Getting Started](https://docs.defang.io/docs/getting-started) page
- Follow the installation instructions from the [Installing](https://docs.defang.io/docs/getting-started/installing) page
- Take a look at our [Samples folder](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/tree/main/samples) for example projects in various programming languages.
- Try the AI integration by running `defang generate`
- Start your new service with `defang compose up`

## Installing

Install the Defang CLI from one of the following sources:

- Using the [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) package manager [DefangLabs/defang tap](https://github.com/DefangLabs/homebrew-defang):

  ```
  brew install DefangLabs/defang/defang
  ```

- Using a shell script:

  ```
  eval "$(curl -fsSL s.defang.io/install)"
  ```

- Using [Go](https://go.dev):

  ```
  go install github.com/DefangLabs/defang/src/cmd/cli@latest
  ```

- Using the [Nix package manager](https://nixos.org):

  - with Nix-Env:
    ```
    nix-env -if https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/archive/main.tar.gz
    ```
  - or with Flakes:
    ```
    nix profile install github:DefangLabs/defang#defang-bin --refresh
    ```

- Using [winget](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/package-manager/winget/):

  ```
  winget install defang
  ```

- Using a PowerShell script:

  ```
  iwr https://s.defang.io/defang_win_amd64.zip -OutFile defang.zip
  Expand-Archive defang.zip . -Force
  ```

- Using the [official image from Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/defangio/defang-cli):

  ```
  docker run -it defangio/defang-cli help
  ```

- Using [NPX](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/commands/npx):

  ```
  npx defang@latest help
  ```

- or download the [latest binary](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/releases/latest/) of the Defang CLI.

## Support

- File any issues [here](https://github.com/DefangLabs/defang/issues)

## Command completion

The Defang CLI supports command completion for Bash, Zsh, Fish, and Powershell. To get the shell script for command completion, run the following command:

```
defang completion [bash|zsh|fish|powershell]
```

If you're using Bash, you can add the following to your `~/.bashrc` file:

```
source <(defang completion bash)
```

If you're using Zsh, you can add the following to your `~/.zshrc` file:

```
source <(defang completion zsh)
```

or pipe the output to a file called `_defang` in the directory with the completions.

If you're using Fish, you can add the following to your `~/.config/fish/config.fish` file:

```
defang completion fish | source
```

If you're using Powershell, you can add the following to your `$HOME\Documents\PowerShell\Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` file:

```
Invoke-Expression -Command (defang completion powershell | Out-String)
```

## Environment Variables

The Defang CLI recognizes the following environment variables:

- `COMPOSE_DISABLE_ENV_FILE` - Whether to disable loading environment variables from a `.env` file in the current directory; defaults to `false`
- `COMPOSE_FILE` - The Compose file(s) to use; defaults to `compose.yaml`, `compose.yml`, `docker-compose.yaml`, or `docker-compose.yml` in the current directory
- `COMPOSE_PATH_SEPARATOR` - The path separator to use for `COMPOSE_FILE`; defaults to `:` on Unix/MacOS and `;` on Windows
- `COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME` - The name of the project to use; overrides the `name` in the Compose file
- `DEFANG_ACCESS_TOKEN` - The access token to use for authentication; if not specified, uses token from `defang login`
- `DEFANG_BUILD_CONTEXT_LIMIT` - The maximum size of the build context when building container images; defaults to `100MiB`
- `DEFANG_CD_BUCKET` - The S3 bucket to use for the BYOC CD pipeline; defaults to `defang-cd-bucket-…`
- `DEFANG_CD_IMAGE` - The image to use for the Continuous Deployment (CD) pipeline; defaults to `public.ecr.aws/defang-io/cd:public-beta`
- `DEFANG_DEBUG` - set this to `1` or `true` to enable debug logging
- `DEFANG_DISABLE_ANALYTICS` - If set to `true`, disables sending analytics to Defang; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_EDITOR` - The editor to launch after new project generation; defaults to `code` (VS Code)
- `DEFANG_FABRIC` - The address of the Defang Fabric to use; defaults to `fabric-prod1.defang.dev`
- `DEFANG_JSON` - If set to `true`, outputs JSON instead of human-readable output; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_HIDE_HINTS` - If set to `true`, hides hints in the CLI output; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_HIDE_UPDATE` - If set to `true`, hides the update notification; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_ISSUER` - The OAuth2 issuer to use for authentication; defaults to `https://auth.defang.io`
- `DEFANG_MODEL_ID` - The model ID of the LLM to use for the generate/debug AI integration (Pro users only)
- `DEFANG_NO_CACHE` - If set to `true`, disables pull-through caching of container images; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_PREFIX` - The prefix to use for all BYOC resources; defaults to `Defang`
- `DEFANG_PROVIDER` - The name of the cloud provider to use, `auto` (default), `aws`, `digitalocean`, `gcp`, or `defang`
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_BACKEND` - The Pulumi backend URL or `"pulumi-cloud"`; defaults to a self-hosted backend
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_DEBUG` - If set to `true`, enables debug logging for Pulumi operations; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_DIFF` - If set to `true`, shows the Pulumi diff during deployments; defaults to `false`
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_DIR` - Run Pulumi from this folder, instead of spawning a cloud task; requires `--debug` (BYOC only)
- `DEFANG_PULUMI_VERSION` - Override the version of the Pulumi image to use (`aws` provider only)
- `DEFANG_SUFFIX` - The suffix to use for all BYOC resources; defaults to the stack name, or `beta` if unset.
- `DEFANG_WORKSPACE` - The workspace (name or ID) to use; preferred way to select which workspace the CLI uses
- `NO_COLOR` - If set to any value, disables color output; by default, color output is enabled depending on the terminal
- `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` - The Pulumi access token to use for authentication to Pulumi Cloud; see `DEFANG_PULUMI_BACKEND`
- `PULUMI_CONFIG_PASSPHRASE` - Passphrase used to generate a unique key for your stack, and configuration and encrypted state values
- `TZ` - The timezone to use for log timestamps: an IANA TZ name like `UTC` or `Europe/Amsterdam`; defaults to `Local`
- `XDG_STATE_HOME` - The directory to use for storing state; defaults to `~/.local/state`

Environment variables will be loaded from a `.defang` file in the current directory, if it exists. This file follows
the same format as a `.env` file: `KEY=VALUE` pairs on each line, lines starting with `#` are treated as comments and ignored.

## Development

At Defang we use the [Nix package manager](https://nixos.org) for our dev environment, in conjunction with [DirEnv](https://direnv.net).

To get started quickly, install Nix and DirEnv, then create a `.envrc` file to automatically load the Defang developer environment:

```sh
echo use flake >> .envrc
direnv allow
```
